# SQLObject-to-Lookup-Organism-Scientific-Name

The results of this program is the scientific name of a user-supplied organism name.

The program first connects to the database.  It then defines a Taxonomy class to represent the Taxonomy table in the database.  The idName = "tax_id" specifies the column that is the primary key for the Taxonomy table.  fromDatabase=True tells SQLObject that this class has an existing table in the database and its not creating a new table.  The names variable then establishes a relationship between Taxonomy and Name tables.  Each entry in Taxonomy can have multiple associates Name entries that are joined in the tax_id column in the Name table.  The Name class then represents the Name table in the database.  The taxa variable creates a foreign key relationship with to the Taxonomy table.  Each Name entry has a specific Taxonomy entry through tax_id.

There is then a function to look up the scientific name of an organism.  The program queries the Name table to find entries where the name matches the organism_name provided from the user.  It then converts the result of the name_query into a list.  If the name_entry is empty and no entries in the Name table matched the organism_name, then it prints an error message indicating the name can't be found in the database.  The program then retrieves the associated Taxonomy object from the first matching Name entry.  Taxa has a foreign key relationship between Name and Taxonomy so the corresponding Taxonomy object can be accessed.  The scientific name of the organism from the associated Taxonomy object is printed.  The except line catches the SQLObjectNotFound exception if there are no matching Taxonomy objects found for the organism name.  The organism_name then joins the command-line arguments so multi-word organism names like "Homo sapiens" can be passed.  The organism_name is processed through the function.
